+++
title = "Edermayer"
description = "the old pirate island"
+++

Edermayer is a fairly large island situated in the Mantay Sea. It has been hotly
contested ever since people took to the seas, being acquired and lost by most of
the major kingdoms of the region. However, for the last 100 years, it had
remained a free state. What little governance it saw, was on a local basis,
usually by councils who oversaw a minor peacekeeping force to keep things from
getting too out of hand.

Thanks to its independence from any established kingdoms, Edermayer became a
safe haven for pirates, who upheld an unspoken agreement to keep the island free
from any grander ambitions. Of course, there was the occasional violence from
rival factions, and more than one attempt to seize the power of the island, but
the pirates always saw that any attacks on their freedom were dealt with
swiftly.

This safe haven held until 2 years ago when the newly crowned Queen of Setallia,
Queen Donna II, sent a massive naval armada to claim the island. Those living on
the island at the time were caught unawares, and the Setallian navy was able to
destroy the coastal defenses at nearly all the major ports before any
significant retaliation. The Setallian force of some 10,000 men aboard nearly 60
ships was able to quickly take the majority of the island, and began
establishing order.

The island is now being used for various industrial purposes by Setallia. A
mining operation digging up ore to take back to the mainland is underway in the
mountains. Additionally, extensive logging and shipbuilding are taking place
after special properties of the native Gloombark trees were discovered.

Although Edermayer has been claimed by Setallia for 2 years now, there is still
much of the island they lay claim to only in theory. In practice, much of the
northern section of the island has proven too much effort for them to establish
a base there. A combination of nearly impassible terrain, dangerous creatures,
rumors of cursed caves, and pirate resistance have stymied efforts thus far.
Gleamcraw Cove, the major town of Emitton, and surrounding land remain untouched
by Setallian forces. It is here that the pirate resistance stronghold lies, and
where they form plans to take back the island.

After so many years of occupation by the Setallian army, the locals have become
of split mind. Many are happy for the extra business from Setallians, and the
opportunities granted if they operate under the confines of Setallian rule.
Others though despise the restrictions on their freedom and business, and
although most won't openly support the rebellion, the average person on the
island supports the pirate resistance and what they stand for.

Now civil unrest begins to take hold on the island. Rumors and first-hand
accounts of monstrous attacks in the town of New Cammeton make their way to even
the most remote towns, and talk of the weakening Setallian navy begins to spread
hope for the resistance. An air of change is spreading that even the Setallians
can feel. The pirates rally their allies as Setallians plan their assault on the
remains of the resistance. The whole island must prepare for the storm ahead as
forces beyond their reckoning seek to overwhelm both sides and usher in their
own plans.
