+++
title = "Origin of the Shadar-Kai"
description = "The Ashtomb, the Beast, and the Curse"

[extra]
header_img = "/books/shadar-kai-origin/ashtomb_guardian.jpg"
+++

Our story begins in a time long ago. In a time shrouded in a cloak of apocrypha,
yet forever in our memory as a reminder of what we once were. Long before the
Setallians of today, before the pirates of yesteryear, and before even the
ancient dwarves of Firehammer Keep, our people walked among the surface and
gazed upon the stars and the sun.

We lived no pastoral life, for the island was a cruel home and filled with
danger. Yet despite our circumstances, or perhaps because of them, our people
stood strong among the races of Edermayer. In those days, we did not hide among
the shadows and in the caves, and so we were not known as the Shadar-Kai. Then,
we were known as the Ehl-Kai, and we walked among the dwarves and humans as
equals.

The island sought to challenge us at every step we took. Savage minions of an
unspeakable beast burrowed through the ground and demolished what we built for
ourselves. Larger creatures than those carried hordes of consuming bugs which
annihilated our crops and ravaged those who were caught in escape. Even the very
trees of the island seemed to conspire against us. The master of the island used
us as its herd to feed its bloated mass, and what we remember from when we were
young, was a race to survive.

After untold years of oppression, the Ehl-Kai found a moment of respite as the
beast began to slumber. We searched for the dwarves and humans, and formed a
union comprised of all those on Edermayer. We began our preparation, for we knew
we had not long before the beast awoke once more. Our assassins worked with
dwarven engineers and human mages to accrue what weapons we could for the battle
to come.

We knew that we could not kill the beast, so we created a prison for it. A
colossal stone structure formed of darkwood and stone magically woven together
by the dwarves. We named it the Ashtomb, and put in place great shackles to bind
the beast forever. It was constructed just in time, for soon after the final
stones were slotted into place, the master of the island awoke.

With the combined efforts of all on the island, we had put together our final
stand against our oppressor. Wave after wave of its minions were sent to tear
down all we had built in its slumber, but time and time again, the advances were
turned aside. Finally, the beast emerged from its resting place and attacked us
itself. When it arrived, it was the Ehl-Kai who strode into battle first,
wielding the combined might of all resistance on the island.

And in the end, it was just enough. The beast had been forced into the Ashtomb,
and Edermayer was quiet.

For some time, we lived in peace. We Ehl-Kai kept to our old ways, and trained
our mind and body in discipline and strength. Custodians of none but oneself and
ones family, we preferred to leave the others to do as they saw fit, just as we
preferred to be left alone ourselves. The island prospered, and many other
peoples joined us, among them many of the fey.

Inevitably though, the tranquility did not last. No peace without a common enemy
ever can. Eventually the dwarves and humans had built great cities of fabulous
wealth and knowledge, while we were content with meager but functional homes. In
their greed for expansion, they asked us to join their cities, and when we
refused, they tried to integrate us by force.

Though we fought back, their sheer numbers overwhelmed us, and many of our kind
were thrown into the very prison containing the beast we had fought to capture
in days past. Our people were forced from their ways, or forced into captivity.
We had become almost overnight, a dying race.

While in the Ashtomb, several of our kind were thrown into cells overlooking the
beast. It had taken on humanoid form over the years, and watched us in silence
for a long time with quiet interest.

One day, when the guards had all left, it spoke to us as one. First it mocked
us, for being imprisoned alongside it \- the captive alongside its captors.
Next, it expressed sorrow, at the life our people had lost. Finally, it offered
us hope in a dangerous proposition. We had the power to free the beast alongside
ourselves, but we had to act together.

None can say if accepting the offer was justified, but accept it we did. The
Ehl-Kai were free, but so too was the great power unleashed on the island once
more.

The beast set its minions upon the island immediately, tearing apart the grand
cities and places of learning that the new times had allowed. The beast was
hungry, and it spared no thought in devouring Edermayer's progress.

In those days the fey magics were strongest of all, and at great expense to
themselves, the fey peoples were able to constrain the beast to a piece of their
wilderness. Its power was so great, that a great chunk of the island was broken
off to separate the devouring beast and its influence from all else. Powerful
wards were placed on the broken island, and three masterwork artifacts were
created and distributed among the mainland.

The fey were at this point occupied with managing the beast, and so the other
races turned to the Ehl-Kai in vengeance. All blame was directed at our people,
and we were once again hunted down for the sins that had been forced upon us. A
new kind of beast stalked us, and we ran among the forests and the mountains
seeking escape. Some among the others stood alongside us, but they did naught
but damn themselves.

Unsatisfied that we could not be tracked down one and all, the leaders of our
enemies placed a curse upon us and all who aided us, that we should never walk
in the light again. The Ehl-Kai were forced into the caves deep beneath the
surface, and so became the Shadar-Kai, cursed to the shadows by those we had
helped free.

Now though, after so many years, the old magic weakens. Some among us can stand
contact aboveground once more. It is through them, that we shall be freed.

<div class="quote">
- A tale told by the Shadar-Kai </div>
